let's get started hello everybody my
name is J I'm one of the expert IELTS
teachers here at e to language in fact
of taking this test three times that's
how much of an IELTS expert I am now I
took the test recently and the IELTS
academic writing task one that I got was
a map I've never taught him at before
and on test day well let me just show
you what I saw
wait wait wait this is what I saw this
is what I saw on test day when I opened
my booklet and I went oh no what am I
going to do with this so let me go back
because what are we gonna do in this
lesson first of all we're gonna look at
that map we're gonna look at that map
and we're going to understand it second
we're going to think about a structure
so we can write a good description of
this map third thing we're going to do
is I'm going to give you a full twenty
minutes to write one so I'm not going to
break this down part by part I'm gonna
give you a full twenty minutes but
before we do that part two I'm gonna
show you a great structure so you know
how to structure it up okay and then the
fourth thing in fact the fourth thing is
not compared with mine the fourth thing
is I'm gonna get you to score yourself
we're going to look at the IELTS writing
criteria you're going to look at them
you're going to look at your writing and
decide what score you're going to decide
where you are okay so that's what we're
going to do so let's look at this map so
on test day I opened my booklet and
kabooms this is what I saw
it says the maps below show a coal mine
and it's redevelopment into a visitor
attraction site okay so more closely a
coal mine here and a visitor attraction
site
and my heart dropped actually it didn't
really I just laughed I thought huh
isn't life funny so let's look at it
more closely
on the left hand side you see the
original coal mine and on the right hand
side you see what it became it became a
visitor attraction site let's just go
through it and this is what you need to
do on test day actually yes let's go
through it so let's look at the original
coal mine first so we have this building
here staff change rooms and a lunch room
okay that became a museum okay here we
had the mine site entrance that became
the tourist site entrance here we have a
Medical Center that became a cafe here
we have a lorry car park that became a
car park here we have waste site one
which became a driving circuit here we
have waste site 2 which became a pond
and then the visitor attraction site
also had this walking track and a
children's playground added to it now
you can see the compass here the north
east south and west so that's what I was
looking at on test day okay fine how
should we structure our writing if
that's what we're looking at well I'm
gonna give it handed over to you I want
you to think about how you would
structure your description because one
of the things you're going to have to do
the first thing really you're going to
have to do on test day is think how am I
gonna structure this what's the best
structure you need to think of your
structure before you start even sketch
it out just spend a minute sketching out
what it will look like I'm gonna help
you with a basic structure I'm gonna
show you give you 60 seconds to write up
your structure and then we'll look at
how I structured mine on test day okay
so here's a basic structure summary you
want that summary sentence the second
paragraph will be the main trends or key
features now of course this map does not
contain any trends it's it's not showing
anything over time so it's not main tree
it's going to be key features okay then
you move into the comparison now I want
you to think about your comparison so
you have 60 seconds get out your pen get
out a piece of paper I want you to write
a little plan for how you will structure
this think to yourself what was
repurposed what was changed completely
and what was added that is not in the
original here you go 60 seconds
you
all right it's really important on test
day to spend that time looking at an
understanding what you're looking at if
you look no you get nervous and you just
want to start riding straight away
because you think are the clock's
ticking the clock ticking start writing
stop look at it look at it look at it
and think okay alright what's going on
here what's different between this map
and this map okay how am I going to
structure my comparison so let me show
you mine this is how I structured it on
test day and I think it was a really
good structure well I hope it is let's
see so I have the summary sentence
that's easy we know how to do that next
I looked at I did a small paragraph on
key features only of the original
coalmine so I just described the key
features of the original coalmine okay
then I moved to the comparison now I
wrote I actually wrote three short
paragraphs because I noticed that there
were three differences between the
original coalmine and the new tourist
center one was repurposed buildings in
other words buildings that were
something like the staff change rooms
that became something else repurposed
building so I've read a short paragraph
like two to three sentences on this then
I noticed that some things were
completely overhauled or demolished I
think I wrote two to three sentences on
this then I noticed that there were some
new additions in the tourist center that
did not exist in the original coal mine
and I wrote about two sentences on this
so I wrote one sentence for the summary
I think I wrote about
I can't I can't remember maybe two two
sentences for the key features and then
I wrote two or three two or three and
let's just say two or three here okay so
keep that in mind because I want you to
write a similar structure let me just
show you what Mayan and I'm gonna walk
you through it up the top my single
sentence summary I had the coalmine key
features this paragraph here I had the
repurposed buildings paragraph here I
have the overhauled or completely
demolished sites here and then I had the
new additions here and I structured it
with firstly secondly lastly okay
let me take you through this part by
part so first of all let's look at the
summary so my summary all I did was I
rewrote that into my own words and I was
very careful to write exactly the same
thing but just in different words okay
that's your summary sentence the
rephrasing of that description that's
easy next paragraph okay well this is
the next paragraph this is the let's go
back this is the coalmine key features i
wrote if you look on the left at the
coalmine i wrote the original coalmine
had various sites to the north was the
coal mine entrance the staff change
rooms and dining rooms were situated in
the north west and to the east were the
two waste sites i didn't mention the
lorry car park I didn't need to so
that's just a very brief description of
the coal mine using the compass then I
wrote this paragraph here which is about
repurposed buildings repurposed
buildings let's just look at the coal
mine first so we had the lunch room and
staff change rooms the mine side
entrance the waste sites the Medical
Center and the lorry car park then I
wrote this significant changes occurred
as a result of the mines transformation
into a tourism site firstly a number of
buildings were repurposed while the coal
mine entrance became the Visitor Center
sorry the visitor entrance the staff
change rooms and dining rooms were
transformed into a museum
the Medical Center also became a cafe so
describe those two things by talking
about repurposing of buildings then I
wrote this paragraph here about sites
that were overhauled or completely
demolished and that's these two here if
you remember from the original there
were two waste sites so I wrote secondly
two sites were either completely
overhauled or demolished
these included the waste sites which
became a driving circuit in a pond both
of these sites are located in the west
of the park
fine then now just before I move on to
that bit I looked at this I thought I
would stop because I've written two
paragraphs but I noticed the walking
track and the children's playground did
not exist in the original now one of the
things that the examiners do is they put
in these key these key differences and
you have to identify the key differences
so one of the big you can ignore some
stuff like for example I didn't talk
about the car park anywhere I don't need
to mention everything I need to report
the main features okay but the walking
track and the children's playground was
something that didn't exist in that and
I thought if I leave this out the IELTS
examiner is gonna mark me down so I
wrote a very short final paragraph on
this and I Rex I wrote this I wrote
lastly a walking track was added between
the driving circuit and the entrance in
addition a children's playground was
built in the southeast corner of the
park okay so what have I done if we go
back I talked about the repurposing of
these three I talked about how these
were completely overhauled or demolished
and it also mentioned the walking track
and the children's playground I didn't
mention this whatever I think that's
fine hold on technical meltdown nope
cool I'm back all right just before we
go on if you're watching this on YouTube
and you're enjoying it please click like
leave a comment because it makes me feel
good if you say something nice
subscribe to this channel so you can get
all of the alerts when we do live
classes and share this with your friends
so they don't suffer on test day cool
now we're going to do some timed
practice I'm gonna give you twenty
minutes but in fact we're going to break
it down into two parts because basically
I can't fit everything on my screen so
first thing you're going to do is write
the summary I'm going to give you two
minutes then I'm going to get you to
write the entire rest of your
description including the paragraph
about the key features and the three
paragraphs about the comparison or
however you want to structure you'll
structure it you'll have 18 minutes to
do that let's write the summary you need
to rewrite this sentence into your own
words to stay the exact same thing you
have two minutes your time starts now
you
all right this is probably the most
important sentence the entire
description because it's the first one
the IELTS exam and good one here on
YouTube live from D on the maps
illustrate illustrate is a nice word
apparently my internet connections
unstable illustrate is a nice word to
use with maps okay I really recommend
using this verb illustrate works the
maps illustrate a coal mine that was
modified into a tourist Park for
attractions okay not bad not bad not bad
the given maps below illustrate how coal
mine turned into a visitor attraction
site yes good was turned into it was
turned into transformed into might be
nice one we've got redevelopment there
in the original transform is a good
synonym for refit for develop or
redeveloped good let me just read you a
couple from the students in the live
class here
it's going on with my cursor I've lost
my pin what's going on here it is it's
back they given somebody write the given
figures they're not figures they're maps
somebody wrote a glance at the
illustration you don't need that the
illustration we've know a glancing at
just the illustration reveals the
comparison between the Cole Cole mall
and its repurposing into a visitest not
bad not bad the map explains no it
doesn't illustrates how a coal mine has
been conducts a you use the word
illustrate the map illustrates the Maps
plural the maps illustrate how a coal
mine was converted into a visitor
attraction site nice I like that alright
let's keep pushing on because you're now
going to have 18 minutes to do the rest
of it just before you begin with this
one I'm going to talk you through it one
more time okay so this is the timer this
will tick down from 18 minutes you have
18 minutes left but before we do that
let's think about our structure okay
first of all you've got your summary
sentence already number one I want you
just to describe the key features of the
coal mine using the compass two or three
sentences then I want you to talk about
parts of the coal mine that were
repurposed okay so this this and this
were repurposed okay then I want you to
write a paragraph on how the waste sites
were completely demolished and converted
into these okay and the third thing
you're going to write about is how a
children's playground and a walking
track were added in addition okay you
can structure it how you like see how
you go I'm going to give you 18 minutes
to do this good luck see you on the
other side
I know if I've clicked that okay I think
I've clicked it now
you
I'm getting a little bit bored so let me
just have a quick look at your writing
here
nice okay good he knows is looking
really nice well done
excellent looking good nice
you
sorry a few people on YouTube were a bit
confused as to what's going on because
they've just logged in we're doing
academic writing task 1 what you're
doing is selecting and reporting the
main features no no no let me explain it
to you more simply than that you're
comparing an old coal mine site that
became a tourist site what are the
differences make some comparisons use a
good structure write it
grammatically that's what we're doing
you have about I don't know
eight minutes left
you
just let me check to see how you're
going cuz I've just realized that time
is actually for 20 minutes so we spent
two minutes writing summary so I don't
want to give you a full 20 minutes okay
most people have finished in the in the
live class here so that's cool and it
looks like joy l wrote 169 words you
might want to count your words again I
had the experience just so here's a
little tip for writing in general so
again they gave me one sheet of paper
for task one one sheet of paper for task
two fine I can write a 150 words on the
one sheet of paper for task one I wrote
about a hundred and eighty words I think
I can't remember exactly I did count
them I counted every single word for
task two I filled up almost two sheets
of paper front and back and I wrote
about two hundred and eighty words so I
don't know about you I've got big
handwriting I can fit about five words
per line
so I needed I definitely need two sheets
of paper to reach the word count so just
consider that don't be nervous or shy or
afraid to put up your hand to the
examiner and say excuse me I need
another piece of paper that will give
you one and that's a good thing to do
all right let's move on it looks like
people have finished the other thing
I'll tell you is practice writing with a
pencil it's very different on test day
when you have to use a pencil compared
to typing you can type very quickly
writing with a grey lip pencil it's very
difficult for a number of reasons one
physically it's more difficult to you
have to think about what you write
before you write it's not like typing
where you can write something delete it
go back add something etc so you need to
practice that skill good and under wrote
200 words all right let's now think
about how to score yourself if you
haven't finished you can pause this and
go back score yourself okay I've made up
a little rubric here it has four
criteria for
these are what the examiners look for in
your writing
okay these are this this is this I've
changed the language to make it a bit
simpler but the IELTS examiner is going
to receive your piece of paper and he or
she is going to mark it according to
task achievement structure vocabulary
and grammar these are the four things
let me just tell you what an IELTS eight
means I don't believe there's an IELTS
nine in IELTS I just don't believe that
that number exists so let's just say
IELTS eight is the highest task
achievement you wrote Abdo you wrote
directly about the image you identified
main features and you compared relevant
data in our case it's not really data
you're just comparing relevant features
okay now a lower bound score let's say
in IELTS five for task achievement is
this you did not address the task or
your understanding of the task was
inadequate in other words you did not
understand the maps the response was
unclear irrelevant repetitive or
inaccurate
fine okay I'm gonna give myself an 8
what are you going to give yourself you
can do five five point five six six
point five etc give yourself a score for
task achievement next structure a high
band score and eight you effectively use
the formula to write a logical structure
okay you used you wrote a logical
structure your response was cohesive and
your ideas are linked logically okay so
there's two things going on with
structure there's the overall structure
of the summary the general description
of the key features and then the
comparative paragraphs but then also
within these paragraphs did you use
linking words like firstly secondly
lastly or in addition did you link your
sentences together logically as well to
create a flow from beginning to end
here's what a low score a five would get
you did not use the formula which I am
showing you now or a logical structure
there was a lack of clear progression of
ideas linking words were used in
accurately and inappropriately fine
vocabulary high you used a wide range of
sophisticated words naturally accurately
and appropriately low you used a limited
range of vocabulary you made noticeable
errors in spelling and/or word formation
that caused some difficulty for the
reader grammar your grammar was entirely
accurate you use a wide range of
structures with full flexibility and
accuracy rare minor errors occur only as
slips maybe you made one tiny error
lower your grammar contained a number of
basic mistakes you made frequent
comedically errors and punctuation to
cause some difficulty for the reader
just for my curiosity give yourself a
score what do you think you deserve for
your piece of writing here
we got an 8 8 yes joy L whoo
nice
I hope so I hope you get that please let
me know Joelle what your scores are when
you receive them I'm not sure if you're
in the same testing center as me that
you you may have been
in a different line okay 6.5 says unand
well that's just the typical score that
I am skews to you they always give 6.5 I
don't know why who else who else who
else anyway that's just a bit of fun you
can play around and said if you like and
you can read those criteria again right
just before we finish guys if you're on
YouTube if you're free member ah if
you're a non-member check out e to
language comm go and sign up for a free
account a free account Aditi language
comm you can also sign up to these live
classes for free and we will send you an
email telling you when we're on so you
can come and attend them as well
so you don't have to just wait around on
YouTube and if you're a free member
think about upgrading your account for
tutorials with excellent teachers for
feedback on your speaking and writing
it's one thing to write it's another
thing to get expert feedback we have the
live classes of course and we also have
lots of practice material and practice
material on the website so there's lots
of benefits to sign anything up and
becoming a paid member as well what's
the time it's nearly ten o'clock I
should probably go home thanks very much
for coming along if you have any
questions please go to help dot e to
language comm and we will be happy to
answer them for you let me put that here
it's help dot e to language dot-com we
will answer any questions you may have
before I go just let me maybe answer one
or two questions
anyone have any pressing questions
my exam is next week Anand good luck
Anand I found reading a little difficult
particularly passage to with match
headings do you think ban gratings will
be brought down on average good question
Joelle I don't know if they do that or
not but I found I found that pretty hard
to be honest lastly - okay okay
I wonder what does e 2 stand for well e
to language means English is a second
language very clever
well I thought it was clever at the time
but no it's a good name I'm happy with
it
okay Wilson please ask your question
again I've missed it
what is your question Wilson
in the chat and trying to find it
is there any guaranteed course to get
eight band know if anybody tells you
they have a guarantee on their course
don't believe them you can't guarantee a
score and a language test it's just
impossible first of all you don't know
the level your level you could be a
complete beginner okay how are you going
to go from a beginner to an eighth in
IELTS that didn't take years I mean
maybe if you had a course that ran for
ten years you could guarantee your score
but that would be an expensive course
[Music]
how much will that cost i if I can't
guarantee anything but our platinum
package is the highest package we have
it's the most amount of feedback you
will get feedbacks critical for your
success and improvement okay
all right Hina other live classes given
to paid members the same as you are
teaching right now like to be over them
all up I think we've opened them all up
so these group classes are open to all
both free and paid at the moments which
we don't think we're going to do for
long and yes we've got some ideas about
adding master classes which we will do
Wilson I didn't get your question so
you're going to have to put it through
help dot e to language comm okay I've
got to go thanks very much for watching
I appreciate it see you guys soon good
luck
you